Thank you. Since you do not have the data in a structured format (CSV/Excel), we must adjust the CMS Development Phase to prioritize a "High-Efficiency Data Entry Flow". Entering 500 items manually is a significant task; the system must be designed to make this as fast and painless as possible for your non-technical staff.

📘 Project Specification: InCity Research Platform

1. Executive Summary
A full-stack, research-focused website designed to showcase mobility data, publications, and opportunities.

Primary Goals: Display research impact (Inform) and attract talent/partners (Convert).
Key Constraint: Non-technical staff will manually input ~500 publications and manage content.
Key Feature: Interactive data visualizations (Charts/Maps) managed via a CMS.
2. Technical Architecture (The Stack)
Frontend (The Head): Next.js 14+ (App Router).
Reason: Best-in-class performance, SEO, and handles complex interactive libraries easily.
Backend (The Body): Sanity.io (Recommended) or Strapi.
Reason: Sanity allows us to build a "Custom Input Interface." Since your staff has to type in 500 items, we can customize the dashboard to be clutter-free and fast.
Visualization Engine:
Maps: Mapbox GL JS (Interactive street/transit maps).
Charts: Recharts (React wrapper for D3.js).
Hosting: Vercel (Frontend) + Sanity Cloud (Content).
3. Comprehensive Feature Recipe

A. Public-Facing Pages (Frontend)
1. Landing Page (Home)

Hero Section: Large background visual (placeholder for now), H1 Headline, two CTA buttons ("Our Research", "Join Us").
Interactive Hook: A functional "Transit Map" component.
Logic: Loads a default JSON dataset to show moving lines or heatmaps.
News Ticker: Auto-pulls the 3 most recent entries from the "News" content type.
2. Research & Projects Hub

Layout: Masonry grid of Project Cards.
Card Details: Image, Title, "Status" badge (Active/Completed), and "Theme" tags.
Search/Filter: Sidebar with checkboxes for Research Themes (Behavioral, Systems, Policy).
3. Single Project Page

Dynamic Linking: Automatically lists "Team Members" involved (clickable) and "Related Publications" (clickable).
Data Viz Section: If the admin uploads data for this project, render a Line/Bar chart dynamically.
4. Publications Database (The Heavy Lifter)

List View: Clean, academic style list (APA/MLA style look).
Search Bar: Instant text search (Title/Author).
Filters: Dropdowns for Year, Document Type (Thesis vs. Paper).
Download: Direct PDF download button or "Read Online" external link.
5. People & Directory

Sorting: Automatically groups people by "Role" (Faculty first, then Staff, then Students).
Profile Page: Shows Bio + Headshot.
Smart Feature: The page must query the database and say: "Show me every Project and Publication where this Person is listed as an Author." (Eliminates double entry).
B. Administrative Dashboard (The CMS)
Since we have 500 manual entries, we need to configure the CMS specifically for speed.

1. The "Publication" Input Form

Title: Text field (Required).
Slug: Auto-generate from Title.
Authors: "Reference" array. Staff searches a name, clicks it, and it links. They do not type names manually every time.
Date: Date picker (Defaults to "Today" to save clicks).
Abstract: Rich Text Editor (supports bold/italic).
File: Drag-and-drop PDF upload.
Link: URL field for external DOI.
2. The "Interactive Data" Input Form

To keep it simple for non-tech staff, we will create a "Chart Builder" object in the CMS.
Fields:
Chart Type: Dropdown (Bar, Line, Pie).
Data: A simple table input (Label | Value).
Result: Staff types "2020 | 50%" and "2021 | 70%", and the frontend automatically renders the chart.
4. Data Logic & Schema (The Database)
We need three primary linked tables (Documents):

Person:
name (string)
slug (unique id)
role (enum: director, staff, student, alumni)
photo (image)
bio (block text)
Publication:
title (string)
publishedAt (date)
authors (array of references to Person)
file (file)
category (tag)
Project:
headline (string)
theme (enum: systems, behavior, policy)
team (array of references to Person)
chartData (custom object for visualizations)
5. Development Roadmap (Step-by-Step)
Sprint 1: The Foundation (Weeks 1-2)

Set up Next.js repo.
Set up Sanity CMS.
Task: Program the Schemas (defined above).
Deliverable: A working URL where you can log in and add a Person.
Sprint 2: The Core Components (Weeks 3-4)

Build the "Navbar" and "Footer".
Build the "Card" components (Project Card, Person Card).
Design Task: Create the placeholder assets (grey geometric headers, default avatar images).
Sprint 3: The Data Visualizations (Weeks 5-6)

Install recharts and mapbox-gl.
Build the ChartComponent.js. Connect it to the CMS data.
Deliverable: A page where you can type numbers in the backend and see a chart appear on the frontend.
Sprint 4: The Content Marathon (Week 7)

Freeze Code: Stop adding features.
Manual Entry: Staff begins entering the 500 publications.
Strategy: Enter "People" first. Then enter "Projects." Then enter "Publications" (so you can link them to the people).
Sprint 5: Polish & Launch (Week 8)

Implement Search logic.
Mobile responsiveness check.
Launch to Vercel.
Final Checklist

npx create-next-app@latest mobility-site
npm create sanity@latest
